# Typological Analysis of the Morphological Evolution of Buddhist Architecture in Southeastern Shanxi Province
This is the dissertation project of my BArch degree in 2017. I analyzed the typological classification of Jindongnan Buddhist architecture based on the 200 instances collected by field measurement and drone photographing and the 2106 instances recorded in official illustrations. <br> <br>
I introduced the concept of "Formal Sequence" in George Kubler's 1962 work "_The Shape of Time_" to the study, and considered the morphological evolution of Buddhist architecture as the consequence of consistent, dynamic response to its ever-changing semantic role in the larger community context. During the analysis, however, I found it very hard to quantitatively define and represent the "context". This is crucial to my study. Let's take an example to explain it:<br><br>
The downscaling of Buddhist temples in rural area is observed temporally accompanying the rapid secularization of Buddhist rituals. One reasonable guess is that as Shamans involved themselves continuously more intensively in the daily affairs of villagers, like marriages, funerals, festivals, schooling and financing, the site of temples must have moved closer to the community center, which forced them to decrease in size to fit into the smaller road grids. But how can we prove this hypothesis? We at least need a well-defined measurement of "closeness". This measurement should have some good properties, like it is based on very clear, intuitive theoretical assumptions, it can be numerically computed and compared, it is context-sensitive (i.e., it changes significantly when context changes) but topologically invariant (i.e., if we rotate the map for a small angle, the closeness value should not change very much), and it is best data-driven.<br><br>
In addition to this closeness problem, there are many other concepts and definitions used during my analysis that require such quantitation. I wasn't able to propose a good method in my dissertation; instead, I used simpler, less convincing but commonly employed statistical tools like counting, frequency, hand-coded feature analysis. However I never forget this remaining question and I have kept discussion with my dissertation supervisor Prof. He Congrong at Tsinghua University on this topic. Recent experience in NLP research inspired me of using language models, which are intrinsically context-sensitive and vectorized, to quantitatively describe community environments. If this approach is proven effective, it should be able to be immediately applied to architecture history research as well.
